Welcome to Declaring Your Own Classes! In this
lecture we are going to be doing what is on the tin, finding out how to
create a class, how to attach variables to the class so that we can
share them between our Start () and Update () method, as we are currently doing here with
location and home Location. And bonus, we are going to be
able to see those variables in the Inspector of the
Unity Editor. So let's dive right in! This is a crucial building block for us, being able to complete this game!
So far, we have got the three steps at the beginning pretty
much nailed. We've got the set start location, calculate the distance
printing. That's all fine! We're reading the player's moves just fine! The problem is updating
the location, and the problem we have here is that we can't share this
variable between these two different methods. Essentially, what's happening
is this, when the engine,
when Unity calls the Start () method, we create a new box,
and then, we put this value in the box and blah blah blah blah blah,
all this stuff happens. But as soon as we end, you know, as
soon as we get to the bottom of this, all of the variables and the boxes that we created,
within these two brackets, get thrown away, and
next time this Start () gets called, we start from scratch. So the same thing would
happen with Update () if we put the location, the homeLocation, in Update ().
Then every frame, when this is called, we would be starting from
scratch, creating the new variables all over again, and then, they get thrown away
when we're done. So this is no good, we don't want them to be thrown away
when we're done. We want them to hang around each time that this gets called
on each frame, so that we can have a location that persists
between frames and that we can update that location.
So how do we do that? Well I've alluded to it already, so, you know, this is the area we're working
on, working between these three points. So I've alluded
to it already with objects. An Object, as we've said, is a collection of
variables, with values and methods that act on those variables. So
with vectors we saw that quite clearly, that you've got the X and Y of a vector,
but when you've got those X and Y together you can do cool things like, you
can say define vector addition or vector subtraction.
You can also define doing the magnitude, which is a Pythagoras Theorem and
requires those X and Y variables. So when you know that you have those variables, because
they've been defined in the Class, you can do all sorts of different operations
and methods on them. So in our example this was the house,
and the house was built from a blueprint, and the blueprint is
the Class in our analogy, and the Class is the blueprint, which defines
all those variables and says, you need to have these variables, in order for these methods to work.
And so the architect's drawing of the house was the
example of that, the blueprint of the house. So there was this fancy word,
Instantiation. What does that mean? Well Instantiation is the process of
making an Object from a Class. So it's as simple as that, that you are
taking a Class and making an Object out of it, that's
Instantiation, because of that, because of the word Instantiation, we also have the
word Instance, which basically means the same thing as Object. We'll be
using the word Object because it's simpler, but you may hear people use the word
Instance, it just basically means the same thing. Oh, and by the way, we've seen the syntax
of new Vector2, you know, basically where we have the, new, keyword
to say that we're going to instantiate this class, Vector2 being the class that we're instantiating
and then the values to put in the variables
that the Vector2 has. OK fair enough. So this
is all quite clear, but how do you create classes? Well
hint, we've already created one. You didn't even know this but ConsolePrinter
is actually a class itself. You can tell because we've got this class keyword and then
the name of the class, which is ConsolePrinter. But how is
this a class, it doesn't have any variables? Well like I say, it doesn't have to have
variables, it doesn't even have to have methods to be a class, but in practice it will have
both. So what is this? Actually, if you look at it, we've
got our game object over here, this silly little man, and then, you've got this
class attached to it. In fact, it's not a class, because it's in purple and it's got values.
This is an object. So if we go back into Unity, in the Hierarchy
we click on ConsolePrinterGO, so that's the game object, that's the
funny little knight. And then, in the Inspector, we can see all of
its components, and these components
are actually just objects, not classes but objects, because
they have things like values. As you can see, this Transform is also a component.
So the location of the game objects in space is also a component, just the same as
our ConsolePrinter script is a component. And so
the reason I know it's an object is because if I go to a different game
object, I can add another component, which is also of a Console
Printer script. So that means these two are linked together with a blueprint,
and what is that blueprint? Well it's the script that we have been writing this whole time. That
it is the blueprint that defines our game
object, and our component rather that goes on the game object.
And well Start () and Update () are these two factories,
in our blueprint, they are the methods that operate
on these variables. Now the variables we haven't yet defined but we can.
And once we do define them, they will only be
thrown away when the object is thrown away, and because the object stays there for
the entire duration of the game, these variables won't be thrown away, which
means we can keep a location there the whole time. So to declare a
variable that can be used in our
objects, in our methods, we need to
do this within the class, rather than within the method. So
very simply, we go between these two braces here,
which are the braces in which we're defining all the methods,
so it can define all the variables in here, and by convention we put this at the top of the class.
So what do we want to do? Well we want to declare a location
variable. And what type does it want to be? Well the type
that goes before and we want it to be a Vector2 just like before. Now notice,
we need a semicolon on the end of this line as well, so now we have created a
variable. This is now shared
between all calls and it will only ever be thrown
away when that object is thrown away. So what we're saying
is that every time Update () is called and every time Start () is called, it's accessing that same
box. It's not a new box that's been created at the beginning of Update (), it's
always that same box, so we can keep values in there to refer to later.
So we can get rid of this location box that we have created
in the Start () method, just remove that, and you'll notice it's not complaining, because we've
already got a location for it to refer to. So that's fine, it's
printing that out. Now let's just test this
out. We can... Well, in fact, I'm going to let you test it out. I want
to see whether it is indeed sharing, I want you to check whether it's sharing.
Can you print the variable from both methods? That is the key
thing to check. And do the methods act differently if you
change the variable? Can you update that variable to be something else?
And can you also make the homeLocation shared too?
So pause the video and have a go at this slightly tricky challenge!
OK welcome back! So
we've got these variables, and I'm saying that they're shared. And how do you know that? Well
because if we go into our Update () method and hit
print and then we say ("Location: "
and I add in the location here,
you'll notice that the first hint is that this isn't being complained about,
but in the second hint, is if I go and actually play the game,
go into my Console, you'll notice well it's calculating the "Path to home".
So that's a good start, we must have a location then, in the Start () method,
but if I go left, you'll notice it's also printing out my location
right here. So that is correct, it is indeed
in both of these, getting the location. The only thing
is the location is not set, but we can easily solve that problem can't
we? We can say that, maybe when my Right Arrow is down,
I'll set the location to something, I'll say new Vector. Notice
I don't have to put the type before here, because I'm not actually declaring the location I'm just
using that variable, I'm just assigning into it like we did at the beginning when we
declared things separately and then assigned into them later. That was why I showed you
that because this is exactly what we're doing, we're declaring at the top of the class, but then,
we're assigning into it inside the methods. So I'm just
going to put 2 and 3. Notice that, instead of doing the whole float syntax, I've
just used ints, and they automatically get turned into floats,
which is the shape of box that the Vector2 wants.
Let's go back into Unity, hit play,
and let's hit Left. So when I've got Left
my Location is 0, but if I hit Right, "Right key pressed". Great!
Then, I hit Left again. You notice my location has been
updated, and it will continue to be updated from now on. Now,
that can't possibly be that, because this
line is after this line. So what is happening is that, I go through
the Update () once, I update that location that is persisting, it's not being
thrown away, and then, the next time we go through Update (), it's getting that value
that I set in the previous time we went through Update (). So
it's definately being shared, both between these two methods
but also between different calls to these methods. So
I think that is a success! One more thing to do is share the homeLocation, as well.
This is very much the same process, Vector2
homeLocation, and
again, I can remove it from here and everything is hunkydory,
everything works out just fine! But I want to show you an even cooler thing!
This is a feature specific to Unity, but because, currently,
if you go into the Inspector and have a look at our ConsolePrinter... Oh, by the
way, all these messages in the Console were in duplicate, and the reason for that was
because we actually had two ConsolePrinters, one on the Directional Light and one
on the ConsolePrinterGO. So we want to remove the one on
the ConsolLight, but that's just showing you that they are indeed two different objects, because they're
both printing out to the Console independently of
each other. OK, so we now just have
one and we've got this homeLocation. Let's go into the
Hierarchy and just have a look! So there's currently no properties here in the Inspector,
but what we can actually do is get Unity to print out the
variables of the ConsolePrinter. Currently, these variables by default
are invisible to other classes, because they are protected
so that, you know, other classes can't peer into our insides if we don't want them
to, but we can expose them to everyone else, by saying these are safe for
everyone, see by putting the public keyword before the type. So remember, it has
to be before the type like this, and then, we can go into Unity
and hit play and notice, there you go, you've got
Location and Home Location, both with their X and their Y, the two different variable
slots. And this is what defines our ConsolePrinter, this is the
variable, the object. So I can change the Location
here, and you'll notice that now, when
I hit the Left key and I scroll down to the
bottom of the Console, that this value that I put in is the
one that's showing up. If I change it to 5 and go Left, you'll notice
that's what comes up! You'll also notice if I go Right, it updates the
values that are here in the Inspector, So this is just re-enforcing that these
variable are here to stay, they're hanging around as long as this component
is hanging around. Obviously if I remove the component bam, those variables
are gone! So if I go and add that component back you'll notice that they start
from scratch, just like when we were calling the method before, when we
finished calling the method then those variables disappeared. So
that's just a little bit of information for you about when variables come and go, basically
when they're created and when they die. So that is useful
information for us to know, and now we have seen how we can share between these two methods.
In the next video we will be able to put that knowledge together, the
sharing and the updating, in order for us to
update the location on the arrow presses and make this game
finally start to come together. So I'm looking forward to that! I'll see you in the next lecture!